NPEP: Iron out Cluster Egress Support API Design (#144)
kubernetes-sigs/network-policy-api: npeps/npep-126-egress-traffic-control.md

spec:
  priority: 55
  subject:
    namespaces:
      matchExpressions:
        - {key: security, operator: notIn, values: [restricted, confidential, internal]}
  egress:
  - name: "deny-all-egress-to-kapi-server"
    action: "Deny"
    to:
    - nodes:
        matchLabels:
          node-role.kubernetes.io/control-plane:
    ports:
      - portNumber:
          protocol: TCP
          port: 443
      - portNumber:
          protocol: TCP
          port: 6443
```

### Implementing egress traffic control towards external destinations

This NPEP proposes to add a new type of `AdminNetworkPolicyEgressPeer` called `Networks`
to be able to explicitly select external destination CIDRs outside the cluster.
This peer type will not be supported in `AdminNetworkPolicyIngressPeer`.

```
// AdminNetworkPolicyEgressPeer defines a peer to allow traffic to.
// Exactly one of the selector pointers must be set for a given peer. If a
// consumer observes none of its fields are set, they must assume an unknown
// option has been specified and fail closed.
// +kubebuilder:validation:MaxProperties=1
// +kubebuilder:validation:MinProperties=1
type AdminNetworkPolicyEgressPeer struct {
    <snipped>

> 	// Networks defines a way to select IPs and CIDR blocks that represent
>   // entities that live outside the cluster as a peer.
> 	// It is the list of NetworkCIDR (both v4 & v6) that can be used to define
> 	// external destinations.
>   // You could use this to select internal cluster networks like podCIDR blocks, but it is
>   // recommended to use namespaces and pods peers instead in those cases.

Reviewer: tab/space issues?

"NetworkCIDR" does not appear anywhere else in the NPEP?

"IPs and CIDR blocks" implies you could use a syntactically-just-an-IP value, which you can't

and don't say "outside the cluster" or "external"...

```suggestion
	// Networks defines a way to select peers via CIDR blocks. This is
	// intended for representing entities that live outside the cluster,
	// which can't be selected by pods and namespaces peers, but note
	// that cluster-internal traffic will be checked against the rule as
	// well, so if you Allow or Deny traffic to `"0.0.0.0/0"`, that will allow
	// or deny all IPv4 pod-to-pod traffic as well. If you don't want that,
	// add a rule that Passes all pod traffic before the Networks rule.
```

Author: unsure what's with the space/tab thing. It looked ok in my editor:
![Screenshot from 2024-01-22 10-18-46](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/network-policy-api/assets/4757069/d3730b40-b99c-462b-a144-4a2833910e25)
will fix it...

	//
	// Support: Core
	//
	// +optional
	// +kubebuilder:validation:MinItems=1
	// +kubebuilder:validation:MaxItems=100
	Networks []string `json:"networks,omitempty" validate:"omitempty,dive,cidr"`
}
```

Note that the API expects `networks` to be a set of "external" destinations.
However if user puts a podCIDR, nodeCIDR, serviceCIDR or other intra-cluster

> networks, it will work but it is recommended to use namespaces, pods, nodes

Reviewer: If it _works_ then we should not document this as being about "external"

Author: yeah will correct this and make it egress CIDR peer and remove the cluster egress and external terminologies

Author: done.

peers to express such entities. Not all implementations can correctly define
the boundary between "internal" and "external" destinations with respect to a
Kubernetes cluster.

Let's define ANP and BANP that refer to these external networks:
```
apiVersion: policy.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: AdminNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: node-as-egress-peers
spec:
  priority: 70
  subject:
    namespaces: {}
  egress:
  - name: "allow-all-egress-to-intranet"
    action: "Allow"
    to:
    - networks:
      - 192.0.2.0/24
      - 203.0.113.0/24
      - 198.51.100.0/24
  - name: "allow-egress-to-external-dns"
    action: "Allow"
    to:
    - networks:
      - 194.0.2.0/24
      - 205.0.113.15/32
      - 199.51.100.10/32
    ports:
      - portNumber:
          protocol: UDP
          port: 53
  - name: "pass-egress-to-internet"
    action: "Pass"
    to:
    - networks:
      - 0.0.0.0/0
---
apiVersion: policy.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  subject:
    namespaces: {}
  egress:
  - name: "deny-egress-to-internet"
    action: "Deny"
    to:
    - networks:

>       - 0.0.0.0/0

Reviewer: This denies all IPv4 traffic, not just egress to the internet, so you either need to rename it, or add another rule before it allowing pod-to-pod traffic.

Author: done.

that represent entities outside the cluster. If a user puts a podCIDR, nodeCIDR,
serviceCIDR or other intra-cluster networks, it will work but it is better to use
namespaces, pods, nodes peers to express such entities. Not all implementations can
correctly define the boundary between "internal" and "external" destinations with respect
to a Kubernetes cluster which is why this field is generic enough to select any CIDR
destination.

Example: Let's define ANP and BANP that refer to some CIDR networks:
```
apiVersion: policy.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: AdminNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: network-as-egress-peer
spec:
  priority: 70
  subject:
    namespaces: {}
  egress:
  - name: "deny-egress-to-external-dns-servers"
    action: "Deny"
    to:
    - networks:
      - 194.0.2.0/24
      - 205.0.113.15/32
      - 199.51.100.10/32
    ports:
      - portNumber:
          protocol: UDP
          port: 53
  - name: "allow-all-egress-to-intranet"
    action: "Allow"
    to:
    - networks:
      - 192.0.2.0/24
      - 203.0.113.0/24
      - 198.51.100.0/24
  - name: "allow-all-intra-cluster-traffic"
    action: "Allow"
    to:
    - networks:

>       - POD_CIDR

Reviewer 2: I'm assuming this is a place holder for actually CIDRs rather than some env vars?

Author: yes just a placeholder for the the actual podCIDR, thanks @Dyanngg for reviewing.
